# Mock Test 3

What were 'the Troubles' about?

Mark one answers

- [ ]  Independence for Scotland
- [ ]  Independence for Wales
- [ ]  Setting up an English parliament
- [x]  Disagreement over Ireland becoming one country

---

Which TWO political parties formed the coalition government in 2010?

Mark two answer

- [x]  Liberal Democrats
- [x]  Conservatives
- [ ]  Labour
- [ ]  Communists

---

In 1348 a third of the populations of England, Wales and Scotland died as a result of which plague?

*Mark one answers*

- [x]  The Black Death
- [ ]  The White Death
- [ ]  The Green Death
- [ ]  The Blue Death

---

The jet engine and radar were developed in Britain in the 1830s.

*Mark one answer*

- [ ]  TRUE
- [x]  FALSE

---

Which TWO changes were introduced by the Education Act of 1944?

*Mark two answer*

- [x]  Free secondary education for all
- [x]  A clear division between primary and secondary education
- [ ]  New public examinations
- [ ]  Primary education for all

---

Who invaded England in 1066?

*Mark one answer*

- [x]  William of Normandy
- [ ]  Richard of the Lionheart
- [ ]  Canute
- [ ]  Harold of Wessex

---

Which TWO are associated with Sir Francis Drake?

*Mark two answer*

- [ ]  Early fight
- [x]  Sailing around the world
- [x]  The Spanish Armada
- [ ]  The Titanic

---

Which colonies of British Empire decided to declare their independence in 1776?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Australian
- [x]  American
- [ ]  South African
- [ ]  Canadian

---

Which TWO are 20th-century British discoveries or invention?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  Mobile phone
- [x]  World Wide Web
- [ ]  Diesel engine
- [x]  Television

---

Who could not get Parliament to agree to his or her religious and foreign policy views and tried to rule without Parliament?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Henry VII
- [ ]  Bloody Mary
- [x]  Charles I
- [ ]  Eilzabeth I

---

St Columba became the first Archbishop of Canterbury.

Mark one answer

- [ ]  TRUE
- [x]  FALSE

---

Charles II was crowned king of England, Wales, Scotland and Ireland in the Restoration after the English Civil War.

*Mark one answer*

- [ ]  FALSE
- [x]  TRUE

---

Which Northern Irish portrait artist, who died in 1941, painted some portraits of the Royal Family?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Markey Robinson
- [ ]  Basil Blackshaw
- [x]  Sir John Lavery
- [ ]  Paul Henry

---

Which of the following UK landmarks is in Northern Ireland?

*Mark one answer*

- [x]  The Giants Causeway
- [ ]  Big Ben
- [ ]  Snowdonia
- [ ]  The Eden Project

---

What are the names of the TWO famous British film actors?

*Mark two answers*

- [x]  Colin Firth
- [ ]  Robert Louis Stevenson
- [ ]  Jayne Torville
- [x]  Tilda Swinton

---

When is Boxing Day?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  The last Monday in August
- [x]  The day after Christmas Day
- [ ]  The day after Easter
- [ ]  1st May

---

What is the capital city of the UK?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  London
- [x]  Sheffield
- [ ]  Liverpool
- [ ]  Birmingham

---

What important change to our voting rights took place in 1969?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Prisoners were given the vote
- [ ]  Women over 35 were given the vote
- [ ]  Compulsory voting was introduced
- [x]  The voting age was reduced to 18 for men and women

---

Which TWO of the following are examples of criminal law?

Mark two answers

- [x]  Selling tobacco to anyone under the age of 18
- [ ]  Discrimination in the workplace
- [x]  Racial crime
- [ ]  Disputes about faulty goods

---

Where is the National Assembly for Wales based?

*Mark one answer*

- [ ]  Newport
- [ ]  London
- [x]  Cardiff
- [ ]  Glasgow

---

Which of these statements is correct?

*Mark one answer*

- [ ]  Police and Crime Commissioners (PCCs) are appointed by the local council.
- [x]  Police and Crime Commissioners (PCCs) are appointed through a public election.

---

What information must always be entered on an electoral registration form?

*Mark one answer*

- [ ]  Only the names of adult men residents at the address
- [x]  The names of all eligible voters who live at the address
- [ ]  Only the names of adult women residents at the address
- [ ]  The names of everyone at the address

---

As well as giving legal advice, solicitors are able to do which TWO of the following?

*Mark two answers*

- [x]  Represent clients in court
- [x]  Take action for a client
- [ ]  Arrest suspects
- [ ]  Change the law

---

Which of these statements is correct?

Mark *one* answer

- [ ]  The Commonwealth is a group of religions that together make up a federal republic.
- [x]  The Commonwealth is a group of countries that support each other and work together.