# Mock Test 17

Which TWO responsibilities should you respect as a resident of the UK?

Mark two answers

- [x]  Treat others with fairness
- [x]  Respect and obey the law
- [ ]  Vote for the government in power
- [ ]  Take in and look after stray animals

In which TWO places are arrangements different for taking your Life in the UK Test?

Mark two answers

- [x]  Isle of Man
- [ ]  Scotland
- [x]  Channel Island
- [ ]  Ireland

Textile and engineering firms recruited workers from which TWO countries after the Second World War?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  South Africa
- [x]  India
- [x]  Pakistan
- [ ]  Canada

D-Day refers to what event in British history?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Battle of Trafalgar
- [ ]  British invasion of Europe in 1994
- [x]  On 6 June 1944, allied forces landed in Normandy
- [ ]  End of the war in Europe in 1945

Which of these statements is correct?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  The Battle of Agincourt is commemorated in the Bayeux Tapestry
- [x]  The Battle of Hastings is commemorated in the Bayeux Tapestry

Why were more castles built in Britain and Ireland in the Middle Ages?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  They were cheap to build
- [ ]  They were status symbols for the nobility
- [ ]  They created work for tradesmen
- [x]  They were defensive strongholds

Some people in Britain were opposed to the slave trade. Who set up the first formal anti-slavery groups in the late 1700s?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Methodists
- [ ]  Mormons
- [x]  Quakers
- [ ]  Puritans

Is the statement below TRUE or FALSE?
A public vote in 2002 decided that Winston Churchill was the Greatest Briton of all time.
Mark one answer

- [ ]  FALSE
- [x]  TRUE

The Elizabeth Tower is part of which building in London?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  St Pauls Cathedral
- [ ]  Mansion House
- [x]  Houses of parliament
- [ ]  Buckingham Palace

Which TWO famous London buildings are built in the 19th-century 'gothic' style?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  St Paul's Cathedral
- [ ]  Buckingham Palace
- [x]  The Houses of Parliament
- [x]  St Pancras Station

Who is the patron saint of Scotland?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  St David
- [ ]  St George
- [x]  St Andrews
- [ ]  St Patrick

Which TWO are Christian groups?

Mark two answers

- [x]  Baptists
- [x]  Roman Catholics
- [ ]  Buddhists
- [ ]  Sikhs

Is the statement below TRUE or FALSE?
In the UK a citizen may only follow an approved religion.
Mark one answer

- [x]  FALSE
- [ ]  TRUE

Which TWO plants are associated with the UK?

Mark two answers

- [x]  Shamrock
- [ ]  Cactus
- [x]  Rose
- [ ]  Olive tree

Ian McEwan, Hilary Mantel and Julian Barnes have all won which literacy prize?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  The Nobel Prize in Literature
- [ ]  The Turner Prize
- [x]  The Man Booker Prize
- [ ]  The Mercury Prize

Where would the Children's Hearings System deal with cases of children or young people accused of an offence?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Northern Ireland
- [ ]  Wales
- [ ]  England
- [x]  Scotland

Which TWO of the following have the right to vote?

Mark two answers

- [x]  UK-born adults citizens
- [ ]  Adults who have been given a visa to study in the UK
- [ ]  Adults who have been granted an indefinite right to remain in the UK.
- [x]  Adults who are naturalised citizens of the UK

Which TWO are members of the Parliament (MPs) responsible for?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  Representing only those who voted for them
- [ ]  Supporting the government on all decisions and laws
- [x]  Scruitanising and commenting on what the government is doing
- [x]  Representing everyone in their constituency

Which TWO services are funded by National Insurance Contributions?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  Supermarket home deliveries
- [ ]  State retirement pension
- [x]  Local taxi services
- [x]  National Health Service (NHS)

Which of these statements is correct?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  County Courts deal with criminal cases.
- [x]  County Courts deal with civil disputes.

To which TWO international bodies does the UK belong?

Mark two answers

- [x]  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
- [ ]  The Arab League
- [ ]  The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
- [x]  The Commonwealth

What must police officers do?

Mark one answer

- [x]  Obey the law
- [ ]  Be politically neutral
- [ ]  Be rude and abusive
- [ ]  Make a FALSE? statement

Which of these statements is correct?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Decisions on government policies are made by the monarch.
- [x]  Decisions on government policies are made by the Prime Minister and cabinet.

Which TWO of the following do you have to pay tax on?

Mark two answers

- [x]  Income from property, savings and dividends
- [x]  Profits from self-employment
- [ ]  Shopping vouchers given to you by family or friends
- [ ]  Small amounts of money given to you as a gift