# Mock Test 32

For which TWO reasons is Henry VIII remembered?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  Had seven sons
- [x]  Broke away from the Church of Rome
- [ ]  Horse racing
- [x]  Married six times

Which of these statements is correct?

Mark one answer

- [x]  The Reform Act of 1832 increased the number of electors.
- [ ]  The Reform Act of 1832 increased the power of the House of Lords.

The Bill of Rights of 1689 limited whose powers?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  The Church
- [x]  The king
- [ ]  Parliament
- [ ]  Judges

Is the statement below TRUE or FALSE?
Shakespeare was a great English playwright
Mark one answer

- [ ]  FALSE
- [x]  TRUE

Which of these statements is correct?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  The 'Divine Right of Kings' was the view held by many English monarchs that they could seize lands belonging to the nobility as they wished.
- [x]  The 'Divine Rights of Kings' was the view held by many English monarchs that they were directly appointed by God to rule.

Who were Elizabeth I's parents?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Henry VIII and Jane Seymour
- [ ]  Henry VII and Elizabeth of York
- [ ]  Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon
- [x]  Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn

During the 16th century, which TWO factors predominantly let to a bloody rebellion by the Irish chieftains?

Mark two answers

- [x]  The imposing of Protestantism
- [x]  The imposing of English laws on land inheritance
- [ ]  Extreme poverty and famine
- [ ]  High taxes on landowners

The First World War ended in victory for Britain and its allies. At what exact time and date in 1918 did the war officially end?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  10am on 10 October
- [ ]  6am on 6 June
- [ ]  8am on 8 August
- [x]  11am on 11 November

George and Robert Stepson are famous for pioneering what?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  The telephone
- [x]  The railway engine
- [ ]  The electric light bulb
- [ ]  The aeroplane

Which TWO political parties formed the coalition government in 2010?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  Labour
- [x]  Liberal Democrats
- [ ]  Communists
- [x]  Conservatives

Which of these statements is correct?

Mark one answer

- [x]  Richard Arkwright developed efficient and profitable factories.
- [ ]  Richard Arkwright developed new farming methods in the UK.

Which of these statements is correct?

Mark one answer

- [x]  A free press means that what is written in newspapers is free from government control.
- [ ]  A free press means newspapers are given out free of charge.

Which TWO of the following are famous British authors?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  Gustav Holst
- [ ]  Sir Steve Redgrave
- [x]  J K Rowling
- [x]  Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

What is the capital city of Northern Ireland?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Dublin
- [ ]  The Pale
- [ ]  Edinburgh
- [x]  Belfast

What sport is played in the UEFA Champions League?

Mark one answer

- [x]  Football
- [ ]  Rugby
- [ ]  Cricket
- [ ]  Tennis

Which TWO of the following are famous British landmarks?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  The Smithsonian
- [x]  The Eden Project
- [x]  The London Eye
- [ ]  Albert Square

The Archbishop of Canterbury can most accurately be described as what?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  The administrative leader of the Church of England
- [x]  The spiritual leader of the Church of England
- [ ]  The financial leader of the Church of England
- [ ]  The political leader of the Church of England

Queen Elizabeth II is the head of state for which TWO of the following?

Mark two answers

- [x]  Many Commonwealth countries
- [x]  The United Kingdom
- [ ]  The European Union
- [ ]  Iceland

How old must you be to ride a moped in the UK?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  25
- [ ]  21
- [x]  16
- [ ]  18

Which TWO of the following would you contact for legal advice?

Mark two answers

- [ ]  A local councillor
- [ ]  Your local member of Parliament (MP)
- [x]  A solicitor
- [x]  The Citizens Advice Bureau

What TWO values are upheld by the Commonwealth association of countries?

Mark two answers

- [x]  Democracy
- [ ]  Violence
- [ ]  Communism
- [x]  Rule of law

What is one of the roles of school governors and school boards?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Marking students' homework
- [ ]  Giving teacher ideas of lesson plan
- [x]  Setting the strategic direction of the school
- [ ]  Serving food and drink in the canteen

Which of these statements is correct?

Mark one answer

- [x]  It is free to visit the House of Parliament to watch debates.
- [ ]  It costs £15 per person to visit the Houses of Parliament to watch debates.

Which of the following countries does not belong to the Commonwealth?

Mark one answer

- [ ]  Singapore
- [ ]  Ghana
- [ ]  Canada
- [x]  Germany